ThermoFisher Scientific (TMO) - The World's Largest Biotech Company
Benchling (uses AI to manage workload): Benchling is dedicated to speeding up life sciences research through its suite of unified applications, which are housed within the company's life sciences research and development cloud. The cloud serves as a platform for centralizing and standardizing all R&D data, enabling users to track every workflow, automatically interlink related data and easily and quickly export data. Benchling's applications can be used for the research of antibodies, cell therapy, proteins and peptides, gene therapy, vaccines and more. Manage large-scale, interconnected data on a wide array of biological molecules, including DNA, RNA, amino acids, proteins, and cell lines. Work with data types such as experimental data, operational procedures, and observations. Establish shared ontologies with standardized data formats to make search and data collation easy. Minimize risks and provide data governance tools to control access and ensure compliance. 
Asimov (Machine Learning and AI): Biotech firm Asimov is a genetic design company. It uses machine learning, computer-aided design and a niche of biology known as synthetic biology — a field that redesigns existing organisms for new uses — to genetically engineer therapeutics like biologics and gene therapies. Asimov markets a platform that includes host cells, a genetic parts library, technical guides and design software for creating genetic systems in various types of cells.
GRAIL (Sequencing, Machine Learning): GRAIL is on a mission to detect cancer at earlier stages so that it can be more easily cured. The company focuses on seeking cancer signals in the blood, guided by the belief that tumors release cell-free nucleic acids into the bloodstream, which are thought to be a direct measure of cancer and can potentially be detected before the onset of symptoms. GRAIL intends to foster a deeper understanding of cancer biology through its high-intensity sequencing assays and population-scale clinical studies.
Schrödinger (Computer Science and Drug Research): Schrödinger is powering drug research with its computer simulations platform. Founded in 1990, the company employs physics-based methods to evaluate chemical matter and compounds before synthesis. As a result, researchers should see faster lead discoveries, accurate property descriptions and access to large-scale molecular exploration. The company also provides integrated data and visualization tools
Illumina (Sequencing and Also Publish Peer-Reviewed Papers): Illumina seeks to make “genomics more useful for all, for a better understanding of human health. The company develops products for cancer research, reproductive health, genetic and rare diseases and microbial genomics.
Viome Life Sciences (Utilize AI and machine learning): Viome Life Sciences believes microbial and human gene expression are altering how biological activities and human health are connected. The company uses an mRNA platform to digitize human data to prevent, diagnose and treat chronic illnesses and diseases. Through the platform, consumers can receive personalized recommendations — like dietary restrictions and exercise plans — on how to live a healthy life.
Invitae (Genetic Testing): Invitae provides genetic testing services, the Invitae Digital Health platform to coordinate patient care, biopharma partnerships. Its products have applications for oncology, reproductive health, pediatrics, cardiology and pathology.
Variant Bio: Variant Bio uses innovative sequence technology and studies the genetics of individuals with “exceptional health-related traits.” The company's goal: to transform drug development as we know it today and, ultimately, find better ways to treat diseases.
Helix: Helix created an end-to-end genomics platform in an effort to enable health systems, life sciences companies and payers to advance genomic research. The company's platform allows users to deliver actionable genetic insights and conduct large-scale genetic analyses. Helix's Exome+ assay is designed to facilitate the discovery and analysis of rare and novel variants, genome-wide imputation, polygenic risk score calculation, ancestry inference and more.
Charles River Lab: Charles River Laboratories' focus is on the quick, efficient and safe discovery and development of drugs and therapeutics. The company provides products and services that take its clients from the basic research stage to clinical development and commercialization. Its customers come from the pharmaceutical, biotech, agrochemical, and academic sectors.The Charles River Structural Biology team in Early Discovery was part of an initiative led by ROME Therapeutics that determined the X-ray structure of an HERV-K (HML-2 [human endogenous MMTV-like] subtype) reverse transcriptase (see image above). Findings from this initiative appeared recently in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. This structure has not been modeled previously and can inform the design of selective HERV-K RT tool molecules for drug target validation. The work has answered some key questions about the structural similarities between HERV-K RT and other viral RTs, as well as why some RT inhibitors effective against HIV-1 RT do not block HERV-K RT. 
Merck: Merck's efforts center around biopharmaceutical research for preventing and treating disease in people and animals with a focus on oncology, vaccines, infectious diseases, COVID-19, cardio-metabolic disorders and discovery and development.
Imagen: Imagen Technologies is dedicated to making diagnostic care more accessible while eliminating errors in radiology. The company's FDA-cleared Computer Assisted Detection and Diagnosis software applies AI technology to medical image analysis in an effort to improve patient outcomes.
Cancer IQ (Genetic Sequencing): CancerIQ is dedicated to helping providers use genetic information to predict and prevent disease. The company provides user-friendly screening tools that allow healthcare providers to offer patients easy risk assessment questionnaires in waiting rooms and track patient outcomes over time to keep them engaged and informed. CancerIQ's screening solution enables providers to replace long paper forms and quickly identify patients eligible for genetic counseling, genetic testing or an MRI.
BridgeBio (Cancer Treatments): BridgeBio works in medicine development for patients who have genetic diseases and cancers with clear genetic drivers. The company's partners have included St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.
Neurocern: Neurocern aims to leverage neuroinformatics and data analytics to improve the quality of life and longevity of neurological patients. The company's technology is designed to identify different types of dementia more effectively than other forms of diagnosis. Neurocern is guided by the belief that analytics can connect siloed markets in new ways to improve long-term care outcomes and ultimately find cures for neurodegenerative diseases.
Notable (AI and Drug Development): Notable's platform aims to dramatically reduce the cost and time associated with the traditional drug development process. Powered by machine learning, automation and high-throughput flow cytometry, the company's precision medicine platform is capable of determining which drugs or drug combinations would be most effective for specific types of cancers. Notable's mission is to change the way clinicians and prescribers select treatments for the millions of individuals suffering from hematological cancers.
Atomwise (AI, ML, Deep Learning, Stats, and Drug Development): Atomwise developed deep learning technology for the discovery of structure-based small molecule drugs. The company's AtomNet technology utilizes a statistical approach in order to extract insights from millions of experimental affinity measurements and thousands of protein structures to predict the binding of small molecules to proteins. Atomwise's technology removes some of the physical barriers that previously limited the success of drug discovery, and has the ability to analyze a very large chemical space to identify a small subset with high specificity for synthesis and testing.
Viecure (Neural Network): VieCure aims to make genomic-based cancer care more accessible for patients and providers. The company's platform operates as a point-of-care clinical decision support system that combines clinical knowledge with patient data to help oncologists generate personalized treatment plans and manage patients' care. VieCure intends for its platform to serve as a value-added extender for every oncologist, nurse, therapist and clinical researcher.
Paige (AI): Paige seeks to transform the diagnosis and treatment of cancer with its AI-native digital pathology ecosystem. The company's AI suite is intended to provide data-driven insights to pathologists, clinicians and pharmaceutical teams. Paige's aim is to propel cancer care with more powerful and efficient tools for diagnosis, treatment selection and drug development.
Quantgene (Machine Learning): Quantgene aims to transform the future of medicine by unlocking the deep human genome. The company's platform combines deep genomic sequencing and AI to detect mutational patterns of disease down to a single molecule, thus helping inform early cancer detection, prediction of disease onset and non-invasive treatment monitoring. Additionally, Quantgene's Serenity Medical Intelligence is intended to extract vital health data from patients' DNA so they can help protect themselves from chronic diseases, drug interactions and lifestyle risks.
Forge Biologics  (AI): Forge Biologics is focused on the end-to-end development of gene therapies, from initial idea to production. A cornerstone of their company is a 175,000-square-foot custom manufacturing and development facility they call “The Hearth.” Forge Biologics is backed by Perceptive Xontogeny Venture Fund and Drive Capital and is PXV Fund's first gene therapy investment.
Orna Therapeutics (RNA therapeutics and Tech): Orna Therapeutics' business is centered on innovating and creating treatments based on circular RNA (oRNA). The company uses advanced technology to develop oRNA therapies that overcome the issues related to linear messenger RNA (mRNA) therapeutic development. Orna, which sprung from research at MIT, launched in 2021 with financial backing from Taiho Ventures, MPM Capital, F2 Ventures, and others.
Inflammatix (Machine Learning and Genomic Analysis): Inflammatix is a biotech startup that develops diagnostic tests to quickly identify and categorize acute infections, including sepsis and COVID-19. Using machine learning and genomic analysis, their tests measure the immune system's response to the infection and provide rapid results to help doctors make informed treatment decisions.
Cellarity (Cell Therapeutics targeting Cellular Behavior): Cellarity, a biotechnology company founded in 2017 by Flagship Labs, aims to be a trailblazer in drug discovery, with a method of creating medicines that target cell behavior instead of just individual proteins. They hope to ultimately enable faster, more successful discovery of medications. According to their website, their approach has been validated in multiple disciplines, and they are putting their focus on four areas: immuno-oncology, hematology, respiratory disease, and metabolism. More recently in November 2021, the therapeutics company announced a massive $370 million founding round.
Maze Therapeutics (Genomics and Data Analysis): Maze Therapeutics' focus is on creating novel medicines through insights gained from further understanding of human genetics. Their goal is to help those suffering from rare ailments by understanding the genetic markers that occur in people who don't suffer from these diseases. Financial backers of Maze Therapeutics include GV, ARCH Venture Partners, Casdin Capital, and others.
Hibercell (Cancer Therapeutic not AI): Hibercell is the first of its kind: a biotechnology company focused primarily on creating therapies that tackle the relapse and metastasis of cancer rather than initial cancer. According to their website, 90% of cancer deaths are due to cancer recurrence. The company's co-founders, Alan Rigby, Ph.D., Ari Nowacek, M.D., Ph.D., and Julio Aguirre-Ghiso, Ph.D., hold considerable experience in medical disciplines, including oncology and neuroscience.
Kriya Therapeutics (Gene Therapy): Kriya Therapeutics develops gene therapy treatments that target obesity, diabetes, and other widespread and serious diseases. They aim to use gene therapy to combat highly pervasive conditions rather than rare monogenic disorders. Kriya's co-founders, plus early-stage research and finance, currently work from a Palo Alto headquarters, with an additional location in North Carolina's Research Triangle Park that focuses on manufacturing.
Embark Veterinary (Gene Therapy/Dog): Embark Veterinary is a biotech company that specializes in dog DNA testing. The company offers a comprehensive genetic screening test that can identify over 350 breeds and 190 genetic health risks, helping dog owners better understand their pet's health and behavior. Embark also conducts ongoing research into canine genetics and collaborates with veterinary schools to advance the field of veterinary medicine.
Bionaut Labs (Micro Robots and Target Propulsion of these MicroRobots for Therapeutics): Bionaut Labs uses a precision-targeted medicine method to transform the way brain disorders are treated. Their advances include the creation of Bionauts™, which are micro-robots that can be controlled remotely to deliver targeted treatment. The company is helmed by CEO and co-founder Michael Shpigelmacher, an expert in robotics and AI. The company's other co-founder, Aviad Maizels, acts as Executive Chairman.
Gingko Bioworks ( R and D, Therapeutics): Our world-class synthetic biology platform combines computational design and ultra high throughput genetic engineering and screening with expertise in process development and manufacturing scale-up. Ginkgo helps your R&D team develop more effective therapeutics and solve your greatest drug development challenges.
Motif Foodworks (Food Biotech): Motif FoodWorks is a biotechnology company that focuses on creating proteins and other building blocks to craft better plant-based foods. They focus on developing more authentic meat and dairy substitutes, developing new plant-based foods, and improving existing ones
Hexagon (Pathology by studying the fungal genome using computation): Hexagon aims to use an understanding of how small molecules target illness-causing proteins to develop effective treatments. Their approach is guided by the study of the fungal genome. In September 2020, the company announced the close of its Series A financing, which included investments from The Column Group, Two Sigma Ventures, and 8VC, as well as a new leadership team member, Chief Scientific Officer Tod Smeal, who previously worked at Pfizer and Eli Lilly.
Olaris (Metabolomics and Machine Learning): Using metabolomics and machine learning Olaris develops in vitro diagnostics that empower patients, providers and biopharma to pursue the most effective treatments. We get the right therapy to the right patient at the right time. 
Protera (AI and Proteins for Food): There are billions of proteins in nature with the potential to perform any activity required. However, assessing them properly with traditional experimental methods will take eons. At protera, we use our proprietary madi™ platform to uncover protein functionalities effectively. madi can label these unknown proteins with their functions by applying state-of-art Deep Learning algorithms. We trained these algorithms to match protein's physical and chemical properties with their potential function with high accuracy.
Deep Genomics (AI and Genes): The future of drug development will rely on artificial intelligence, because biology is too complex for humans to understand RNA as a therapeutic modality has arrived on a global scale with new medicines approved for rare disease and as vaccines. This is only the beginning. Everyone will face a genetic condition in their lifetime. And, because RNA therapies can be programmed to precisely target genetic causes, we can conceive of addressing most genetic conditions. Finding therapies requires mining RNA biology data. But, this data is vast, complex and overwhelming, making standard approaches to drug discovery too slow and costly. Deep Genomics has the solution: Our AI Workbench untangles the complexity in RNA biology, identifies novel targets, and evaluates thousands of possibilities to identify the best therapeutic candidates. We seek to program therapies for any gene and any genetic condition.
Capstan Therapeutics (Cell growth and Biotech Therapies for Cancers): Capstan Therapeutics is a biotech startup focused on developing therapies for cancer and other serious diseases. The company is using its proprietary drug discovery platform to identify small molecules that target key proteins involved in the regulation of cellular processes such as cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis, with the aim of developing targeted therapies for patients with unmet medical needs. Capstan's lead drug candidate is currently in preclinical development for the treatment of multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer.
Rakuten Therapy: Rakuten Medical will continue advancing its research pipeline to provide innovative cancer therapies as quickly as possible. Currently, Rakuten Medical is conducting a global Phase 3 multi-center clinical trial with ASP-1929 in patients with recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Moreover, early phase clinical trials investigating ASP-1929 in combination with anti-PD1, in multiple tumor types, are currently planned or underway (refer to www.ClinicalTrials.gov). In addition, Rakuten Medical is conducting additional early-stage research for investigative molecules such as RM-1995. More details on our full development pipeline can be found below
Ring Therapeutics: DNA-based treatments Ring Therapeutics is building a redosable and targetable gene therapy platform. It aims to increase the usage of DNA-based treatments beyond gene replacement. Another thing that makes Ring Therapeutics unique is that it allows healthcare professionals to reach previously unreachable tissues and organs. To help with its mission, the startup has amassed a team stacked full of PhDs in different areas of medicine.2